[Music]
fifteen tips for new drivers that you
can't learn in a driving school even the
most experienced drivers don't always
know all the nuances that can make
driving easier and of course if you are
a new driver you can save yourself a lot
of time in trouble if you know some very
simple but crucial driving tips how to
eliminate blind spots how do you know
when to stop as you are parallel parking
what should you never do before making a
left turn Brightside explains how to
feel at ease when driving learn to avoid
dangerous situations and become a
confident driver wouldn't you mind
getting all those answers then give this
video a like and watch it till the end
every tip we are going to share is very
important so you'd better not miss any
of them number 15 get to know your
vehicle many new drivers are so excited
about getting their first car all they
want to do is Drive Drive and maybe take
their friends for a ride to show them
that new shining set of wheels and make
them jealous sounds like something you
wanted to do you will have time and
opportunity for that but the first most
important thing is to get to know your
vehicle believe us when you hit the
roads you will have many things to worry
about rather than finding the switches
for your front and rear fog lights or
your hazard light button see it as
getting ready for an important exam the
more time you take preparing for it and
the better you know the material the
less stress you will have during the
exam plus in case you are pulled over
the police might ask you to show
everything is properly functioning in
your car and if you fail to do it they
are unlikely going to be happy about it
so sit in your car and examine it make
sure you know what every button and
control is for then and only then you
will be ready to drive safely
number 14 check if all your mirrors are
adjusted correctly
if your mirrors aren't adjusted
correctly a blind spot appears a blind
spot is a part of the road that you
can't see so that you may miss a car
traveling in an adjacent traffic lane to
eliminate blind spots adjust your
sideview mirrors so that you can't see
your car in them to check if there is a
blind spot drive past another parked car
in Reverse looking in your sideview
mirror as soon as it's out of the
picture you should see it with your
peripheral vision the rearview mirror
must be adjusted so that you can see the
back window of your car entirely when
adjusting the mirrors you should be in
your normal driving position number 13
don't drive in someone else's blind spot
we know you are smart and careful enough
to always check your blind spot but see
there are many people on the road quite
a lot of them just ignore the blind spot
rule and they change lanes driving fast
without properly looking or thinking of
others so what is the best thing you can
do to ensure your safety if you find
yourself in a dangerous position change
it a dangerous position is when you are
driving along to the right and slightly
behind another vehicle you are likely to
be in their blind spot so they don't see
you you can try going faster to be
alongside or get in front of that car if
you are not ready to speed up and rush
in front of other vehicles yet try doing
the opposite and slow down and drop back
a bit so that they can see you in their
mirrors it takes a village or more like
a highway to ensure safe driving for
everyone
number 12 learn to feel where the wheels
are
if you want to avoid potholes on the
road you need to learn to feel where the
wheels are feeling your vehicle is the
key to being able to control it and it
is crucially important for safe driving
some people are just natural at it but
for most of us or not there is an easy
but useful trick to practice take an
empty plastic bottle step on up with
your foot and put it on the road
practice driving over it with your left
and right front wheels and turn open the
window to hear the bottle crunch with
enough practice you will learn to feel
where your wheels go number eleven park
guided by your windows and mirrors what
was the hardest thing to learn a driving
school parallel parking it's the answer
many people give if you are one of them
click thumbs up see you are not alone we
believe your driving instructor was
patient and competent enough to teach
you how to do it properly however you
most likely still feel confused when it
comes to the thing when should I stop
the car not to scratch it here are two
essential tips which are guaranteed to
help you when perpendicular parking
stop once you see the curb unto the side
mirror this way the distance between the
car and the curb will be minimal and you
won't scratch the bumper when parallel
parking make sure you don't scratch the
hubcaps stick a piece of colored duct
tape to the bottom of the windshield
stop once the mark matches the curb line
it's better to parallel park in Reverse
this way the curb is visible in the
sideview mirrors so that you won't be
too close to it number 10 learn to drive
in bad weather
how do you feel about driving on ice or
during a heavy rain or snow terrified
then try it as crazy as it sounds it is
a skill you have to master and the best
way to do it is practice you never know
what might happen and when you are going
to have to drive in bad weather
conditions so it is better to be
prepared the best thing about practicing
is that you can choose the time and
place to do it you will get to feel how
braking distances are increased and the
opposite happens to your grip so you
will know you have to change something
about your driving style to conquer any
rough weather just drive in a quiet
neighborhood for the first time
bad weather also affects it but you will
feel less scared to get into trouble
number 9 dry your brakes after driving
through a puddle before even the
smallest of puddles you'd better slow
down and go through it smoothly without
maneuvering or changing speed if you
drive quickly there is a chance of water
getting into the ignition system and
making the engine stall besides
aquaplaning might start that's when a
car loses traction and you lose control
of it after passing a big puddle don't
cut your engine and don't change your
speed try the brakes first pressing the
gas pedal press the brake pedal a few
times friction causes heat so water
evaporates from the brake pads number
eight watch out for the maneuvers of
taller cars in front of you watch out
not only for the car right in front of
you but also for those further down the
road drivers of taller vehicles trucks
and buses see Road situations much more
clearly if they start to change lanes
all at once it's likely that they saw a
car accident or a different kind of road
block follow suit and change lanes to
this little trick is pretty easy and it
only requires your attention but it can
do you much good number seven if the car
doesn't start turn the high beams on and
the times of global climate change you
never know where and when winter might
come after you sometimes a winner the
car just won't start on the first try it
is not a reason to panic call for help
or use public transportation instead
before you give it a try keep your car
battery by turning the high beams on the
radio or the indicator can work too
number six lower your rear view mirror
at night many drivers don't know that a
standard rearview mirror has two modes
day mode and night mode to avoid being
blinded by a car behind you change the
angle of the mirror by pulling down the
lever under it
number five turn on the air conditioner
even when you don't use the air
conditioner for example in winter turn
it on regularly for a short period of
time otherwise the coolant will seep out
and the tubes will be dry number four
use the handbrake regularly even if you
don't do angle parking use the handbrake
regularly to keep it alive the only
exception is very cold weather in such
conditions you'd better avoid using the
handbrake so that the brake pads don't
freeze number three if a car in the
neighboring Lane is slowing down follow
suit well people often do irrational
things that can't be explained it is
okay sometimes to follow their lead for
example if you see a car in the
neighboring lane slowing down you should
do the same it's likely that the driver
wants to let a pedestrian or an animal
pass number two don't let the illusion
of low speed deceive you on a straight
road the speed seems to be two times
lower than it really is it makes you
want to speed up to give your vehicle a
chance to show its full power and yes to
show others you are not afraid of fast
driving remember you are going at a fine
speed it's just an illusion that makes
you think you are way too slow and even
that speed is too much for a turn if you
don't slow down before taking a turn the
car may begin to skid number one don't
turn the wheels beforehand when making a
left turn we made it to the top of our
list here is one important rule you
should never ignore
it's dangerous to turn the wheels in
advance before making a left turn they
must be in the initial position if a car
hits you from the back you might be
thrown into the opposite lane where
hitting other cars will be inevitable
drive safely make sure to share this
video with your friends they will thank
you for it if you liked it let us know
using the special thumbs up button if
this video gets 50,000 likes we'll share
more secrets for drivers stay on the
bright side
hey on